Maintenance Phase; Remove all Fury points in excess of a model's FURY stat. Leave fury points on warbeasts at this time. Remove all focus points from your models .Check for expiration of continuous effects on models you control. (effect expires on a roll of 1 or 2). Resolve all other effects that occur during the Maintenance Phase.
Control Phase; Leach fury up to current FURY stat from warbeasts in battlegroup in control area. Replenish Warcaster Focus. Allocate Focus Points to Warjacks. Spend fury to keep upkeep spells in play. Upkeep spells that are not maintained expire immediately. Make Threshold checks for each warbeast with 1 or more fury on it. Warbeasts that fail the check immediately frenzy. Models with Fury/Focus Manipulation can Shake Stationary and/ or Knockdown effects. Resolve all other effects that occur during the Control Phase.
OUT OF FORMATION; A trooper model that is out of formation cannot make actions, receive orders, cast spells, make attacks, advance outside of its normal movement, and suffers –2 CMD. At the beginning of its activation an out of formation trooper must advance towards or run directly towards to get back into formation. If the model advances, it must forfeit its action. At the end of a unit’s activation, every out of formation trooper must individually pass a CMD check or flee.
CAVALRY TALL IN THE SADDLE; Models ignore intervening models with smaller bases when making melee and charge attacks.
CAVALRY RIDE-BY ATTACK; (Order)- Model makes a full advance and halts at any point to make its combat action. Resolve any end of action effects, after which it can resume its movement. Resolve any end of movement effects. A cavalry trooper must receive the order and complete its movement and action before the next model in its unit activates.
CAVALRY MOUNT;- A Mount has a melee range of 1/2”. Attack and damage rolls cannot be boosted. Damage roll is 2d6 + POW of the mount. Normally a mount can only be used to make impact attacks.
CAVALRY CHARGE; (Order)- If a charging cavalry model contacts another model and has moved at least 3”, it can stop and make impact attacks with its Mount against all models in the Mount’s melee range. Impact attacks are simultaneous. After resolving impact attacks the model continues its charge movement and cannot make any more impact attacks. If the target model is not in melee range at the end of movement, the charge fails. If the charge target is the first model contacted, the charging model can make an impact attack against it. If the charging model did not move at least 3”it must stop its movement and makes no impact attacks. A cavalry model that charges gets +2 to charge attack rolls. Impact attacks do not get this bonus.
LIGHT CAVALRY; Light cavalry models can make initial and additional attacks with its mount. Light cavalry models cannot make ride-by or impact attacks. After a solo or all models in the unit complete their action(s), the model/ unit can advance up to 5”.
LINE OF SIGHT (LOS);Any time one model “targets” another model, it must have line of sight to that model. When a model “selects” another model, it need not have line of sight. Elevated Attacker Ignore intervening models within 1” of target model with equal or smaller base than the attacker.